## The Heroe Editor ##

**Create the Heroes Component**

Using the Angular CLI, generate a new component named heroes. *ng generate component heroes*


- This creates a new folder, src/app/heroes/, and generates the three files of the HeroesComponent along with a test file.

@Component is a decorator function that specifies the Angular metadata for the component.

The ngOnInit() is a lifecycle hook.

Always export the component class so you can import it elsewhere.

**Add a Heroe Property**

Add a hero property to the HeroesComponent for a hero named "Windstorm."  *hero = 'Windstorm';*

**Show the Heroe**

Open the heroes.component.html template file. Delete the default text generated by the Angular CLI and replace it with a data binding to the new hero property. *{{hero}}*

**Show the HeroesComponent view**

To display the HeroesComponent, you must add it to the template of the shell AppComponent.

App-heroes is the element selector for the HeroesComponent. So add an <app-heroes> element to the AppComponent template file, just below the title. *<-h1>{{title}}</h1>
<app-heroes></app-heroes>*

**Create a Hero Class**

Create a Hero class in its own file in the src/app folder. Give it id and name properties. 

*export class Hero {
  id: number;
  name: string;
}*

Return to the HeroesComponent class and import the Hero class.

Refactor the component's hero property to be of type Hero. Initialize it with an id of 1 and the name Windstorm.

----------

The revised HeroesComponent class file should look like this: heroes/heroes.component.ts
content_copy
import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';

import { Hero } from '../hero';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-heroes',

  templateUrl: './heroes.component.html',

  styleUrls: ['./heroes.component.css']
})

export class HeroesComponent implements OnInit {
  hero: Hero = {

    id: 1,
    name: 'Windstorm'
  };

  constructor() { }

  ngOnInit() {
  }

}

----------

**Show the Hero Object**

Update the binding in the template to announce the hero's name and show both id and name in a details layout like this:

----------


*<`h2>{{hero.name}} Details</h2>*

*<div><span>id: </span>{{hero.id}}</div>*

*<div><span>name: </span>{{hero.name}}</div>*

----------

**Format with the UppercasePipe**

Modify the hero.name binding like this:

*<-h2>{{hero.name | uppercase}} Details</h2>*

**Edit the Hero**

Users should be able to edit the hero name in an <`input> textbox.

To automate that data flow, setup a two-way data binding between the <-input> form element and the hero.name property.

**Two-way binding**
Refactor the details area in the HeroesComponent template so it looks like this:

<-div>

  <-label>name:

    <-input [(ngModel)]="hero.name" placeholder="name"/>

  <-/label>

<-/div>

----------

**The Missing FormsModule**

Notice that the app stopped working when you added [(ngModel)].

To see the error, open the browser development tools and look in the console for a message like

content_copy

Template parse errors:

Can't bind to 'ngModel' since it isn't a known property of 'input'.

Although ngModel is a valid Angular directive, it isn't available by default.

It belongs to the optional FormsModule and you must opt-in to using it.

----------

**AppModule**

The Angular CLI generated an AppModule class in src/app/app.module.ts when it created the project. This is where you opt-in to the FormsModule.

**Import FormsModule**

Open AppModule (app.module.ts) and import the FormsModule symbol from the @angular/forms library.

*import { FormsModule } from '@angular/forms'; // <-- NgModel lives here*

Then add FormsModule to the @NgModule metadata's imports array, which contains a list of external modules that the app needs.

*imports: [
  BrowserModule,
  FormsModule
],;*

When the browser refreshes, the app should work again.

----------

**Declare HeroesComponent**

Every component must be declared in exactly one NgModule.

You didn't declare the HeroesComponent. So why did the application work?

It worked because the Angular CLI declared HeroesComponent in the AppModule when it generated that component.

Open src/app/app.module.ts and find HeroesComponent imported near the top.

*import { HeroesComponent } from './heroes/heroes.component';*

The HeroesComponent is declared in the @NgModule.declarations array.

*declarations: [
  AppComponent,
  HeroesComponent
];*

